docs/execution_json.rst, before:

===========================
Job Description JSON Schema
===========================

The Job Description json (input of Tibanna) defines an individual execution. It has two parts, `args` and `config`. `args` contains information about pipeline, input files, output bucket, input parameters, etc. `config` has parameters about AWS such as instance type, EBS size, ssh password, etc.


args
----

Pipeline specification
######################

:app_name:
    - <name of the app> (e.g. 'pairsam-parse-sort')
    - A alphanumeric string that can identify the pipeline/app. May contain '-' or '_'.

:app_version:
    - <version of the app> (e.g. 0.2.0)
    - Version of the pipeline/app, for the user to keep in track.

:language:
    - 'cwl_v1', 'cwl_draft3' or 'wdl'
    - For WDL, it is a required field. For CWL, the language field can be omitted.

CWL-specific
++++++++++++

:cwl_directory_url:
    - <url_that_contains_cwl_file(s)>
    - (e.g. 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/4dn-dcic/pipelines-cwl/0.2.0/cwl_awsem')
    - The url must be public.

:cwl_main_filename:
    - <main_cwl_file> (e.g. 'pairsam-parse-sort.cwl')
    - This file must be in the cwl url given by ``cwl_directory_url``.
    - The actual cwl link would be ``cwl_directory_url`` + '\' + ``cwl_main_file_name``

:cwl_child_filenames:
    - <list_of_cwl_files> or ``[]`` (e.g. ['step1.cwl', 'step2.cwl'])
    - An array of all the other cwl files that are called by the main cwl file. If the main CWL file is of 'workflow' type, the other CWL files corresponding to steps or subworkflows should be listed here.

:cwl_version:
    - either ``v1`` or ``draft-3``

:singularity:
    - This option uses Singularity to run Docker images internally (slower). This option does NOT support native Singularity images, since CWL does not support native Singularity images.
    - either ``true`` or ``false``
    - This is an optional field. (default ``false``)

WDL-specific
++++++++++++

:wdl_directory_url:
    - <url_that_contains_wdl_file(s)>
    - (e.g. 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/4dn-dcic/pipelines-cwl/master/wdl')
    - The url must be public.

:wdl_main_filename:
    - <main_wdl_file> (e.g. 'pairsam-parse-sort.wdl')
    - This file must be in the wdl url given by ``wdl_directory_url``.
    - The actual wdl link would be ``wdl_directory_url`` + '\' + ``wdl_file_name``

:wdl_child_filenames:
    - <list_of_wdl_files> or ``[]`` (e.g. ['subworkflow1.wdl', 'subworkflow2.wdl'])
    - An array of all the other wdl files that are called by the main wdl file. This could happen if there are the main WDL file is using another WDL file as a subworkflow.


Input data specification
########################

:input_files:
    - A dictionary that contains input files. The keys must match the input argument names of the CWL/WDL.
    - It contains ``bucket_name``, ``object_key`` as required fields.
    - Optionally, it may contain the following fields:

      - ``profile`` if the bucket can only be accessed through profile (profile can be set during Tibanna deployment)
      - ``rename`` if the file name must be changed upon download to the EC2 instance. This could be useful if your files are organized in certain names on S3 but the pipeline requires it to have a different name.

    - ``object_key`` and ``rename`` can be a singlet, an array, an array of arrays or an array of arrays of arrays.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
            'bam': {
                'bucket_name': 'some_public_bucket',
                'object_key': 'some_directory/some_file_name.bam',
                'profile': 'user1'
            },
            'chromsize': {
                'bucket_name': 'suwangs_bucket',
                'object_key': 'some_other_directory/5sd4flvlg.chrom.sizes',
                'rename': 'some_renamed_directory/hg38.chrom.sizes'
            }
        }

    )

:secondary_files:
    - A dictionary of the same format as `input_file` but contains secondary files. The keys must match the input argument name of the CWL/WDL where the secondary file belongs.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
            'bam': {
                'bucket_name': 'some_public_bucket',
                'object_key': 'some_directory/some_file_name.bai',
                'profile': 'user1'
            }
        }

    )


:input_parameters:
    - A dictionary that contains input parameter values. Default parameters don't need to be included. The keys must match the input argument name of the CWL/WDL.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
            'nThreads': 16
        }

    )


Output target specification
###########################


:output_S3_bucket:
    - The name of the bucket where output files will be sent to.

:output_target:
    - A dictionary that contains a desired object keys to be put inside output bucket. This can be useful if, for example, the pipeline always generates an output file of the same name (e.g. report, output.txt, etc) but the user wants to distinguish them by sample names in the output bucket. If not set, the original output file names will be used as object key.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
          'out_pairsam': '7b932aca-62f6-4d42-841b-0d7496567103/4DNFIPJMZ922.sam.pairs.gz'
        }

    )

:secondary_output_target:
    - Similar to ``output_target`` but for secondary files.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
          'out_pairsam': '7b932aca-62f6-4d42-841b-0d7496567103/4DNFIPJMZ922.sam.pairs.gz.px2'
        }

    )


Dependency specification
########################


:dependency:
    - List of other jobs that should finish before the job starts
    - Currently, only execution arns are accepted. An execution arn of a given run is printed out after running the ``invoke run_workflow`` command. It can also be retrieved from the response of the ``run_workflow`` function (``response['_tibanna']['exec_arn']``).

    ::

        { 
            "exec_arn": ["arn:aws:states:us-east-1:643366669028:execution:tibanna_unicorn_default_7927:md5_test"]
        }


config
------

:ebs_size:
    - <ebs_size_in_gb>
    - It can be specified by the user or left to be 0 (auto-determine) if Benchmark function is available for a given workflow/pipeline.

:log_bucket:
    - <log_bucket_name>
    - This is where the logs of the Tibanna runs are sent to.

:json_bucket:
    - <log_bucket_name>
    - This is where Tibanna sends an instruction to for an AWSEM EC2 instance.

:instance_type:
    - <instance_type>
    - Instance type (e.g. t2.micro) can be specified by the user or left to be '' (auto-determine) if Benchmark function is available for a given workflow.

:EBS_optimized:
    - <ebs_optimized> ``true``, ``false`` or '' (blank)
    - Whether the specific instance type should be EBS_optimized. It can be True only for an instance type that can be EBS optimized. If instance type is unspecified, leave this as blank.

:shutdown_min:
    - either number of minutes or string 'now'
    - 'now' would make the EC2 instance to terminate immediately after a workflow run. This option saves cost if the pipeline is stable. If debugging may be needed, one could set shutdown_min to be for example, 30, in which case the instance will keep running for 30 minutes after completion of the workflow run. During this time, a user could ssh into the instance.

:password:
    - <password_for_ssh> or '' (blank)
    - One can use either password or key_name (below) as ssh mechanism, if the user wants an option to ssh into the instance manually for monitoring/debugging purpose. Tibanna itself does not use ssh.
    - The password can be any string and anyone with the password and the ip address of the EC2 instance can ssh into the machine.

:key_name:
    - <key_pair_name> or '' (blank)
    - One can use either password (above) or key_name as ssh mechanism, if the user wants an option to ssh into the instance manually for monitoring/debugging purpose. Tibanna itself does not use ssh.
    - The key pair should be an existing key pair and anyone with the key pair ``.pem`` file and the ip address of the EC2 instance can ssh into the machine.

:ebs_iops: 500
:ebs_type: io1



Example job description for CWL
-------------------------------

::

    {
      "args": {
        "app_name": "pairsam-parse-sort",
        "app_version": "0.2.0"
        "cwl_directory_url": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/4dn-dcic/pipelines-cwl/0.2.0/cwl_awsem/",
        "cwl_main_filename": "pairsam-parse-sort.cwl",
        "cwl_child_filenames": [],
        "cwl_version": "v1",
        "singularity": False,
        "input_files": {
          "bam": {
            "bucket_name": "some_public_bucket",
            "object_key": "5ae5edb2-8917-445a-b93f-46936a1478a8/4DNFI3F894Y3.bam",
            "profile": "user1"
          },
          "chromsize": {
            "bucket_name": "suwang",
            "object_key": "4a6d10ee-2edb-4402-a98f-0edb1d58f5e9/4DNFI823LSII.chrom.sizes"
          }
        },
        "secondary_files": {},
        "input_parameters": {
          "nThreads": 16
        },
        "output_S3_bucket": "suwang",
        "output_target": {
          "out_pairsam": "7b932aca-62f6-4d42-841b-0d7496567103/4DNFIPJMZ922.sam.pairs.gz"
        },
        "secondary_output_target": {}
      },
      "config": {
        "ebs_size": 0,
        "json_bucket": "suwang",
        "EBS_optimized": "",
        "ebs_iops": 500,
        "shutdown_min": 30,
        "instance_type": "",
        "ebs_type": "io1",
        "password": "whateverpasswordworks",
        "log_bucket": "suwang",
        "key_name": ""
      }
    }

Commit message:

added alt_cond_output_argname to execution json doc

docs/execution_json.rst, after:

===========================
Job Description JSON Schema
===========================

The Job Description json (input of Tibanna) defines an individual execution. It has two parts, `args` and `config`. `args` contains information about pipeline, input files, output bucket, input parameters, etc. `config` has parameters about AWS such as instance type, EBS size, ssh password, etc.


args
----

Pipeline specification
######################

:app_name:
    - <name of the app> (e.g. 'pairsam-parse-sort')
    - A alphanumeric string that can identify the pipeline/app. May contain '-' or '_'.

:app_version:
    - <version of the app> (e.g. 0.2.0)
    - Version of the pipeline/app, for the user to keep in track.

:language:
    - 'cwl_v1', 'cwl_draft3' or 'wdl'
    - For WDL, it is a required field. For CWL, the language field can be omitted.

CWL-specific
++++++++++++

:cwl_directory_url:
    - <url_that_contains_cwl_file(s)>
    - (e.g. 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/4dn-dcic/pipelines-cwl/0.2.0/cwl_awsem')
    - The url must be public.

:cwl_main_filename:
    - <main_cwl_file> (e.g. 'pairsam-parse-sort.cwl')
    - This file must be in the cwl url given by ``cwl_directory_url``.
    - The actual cwl link would be ``cwl_directory_url`` + '\' + ``cwl_main_file_name``

:cwl_child_filenames:
    - <list_of_cwl_files> or ``[]`` (e.g. ['step1.cwl', 'step2.cwl'])
    - An array of all the other cwl files that are called by the main cwl file. If the main CWL file is of 'workflow' type, the other CWL files corresponding to steps or subworkflows should be listed here.

:cwl_version:
    - either ``v1`` or ``draft-3``

:singularity:
    - This option uses Singularity to run Docker images internally (slower). This option does NOT support native Singularity images, since CWL does not support native Singularity images.
    - either ``true`` or ``false``
    - This is an optional field. (default ``false``)

WDL-specific
++++++++++++

:wdl_directory_url:
    - <url_that_contains_wdl_file(s)>
    - (e.g. 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/4dn-dcic/pipelines-cwl/master/wdl')
    - The url must be public.

:wdl_main_filename:
    - <main_wdl_file> (e.g. 'pairsam-parse-sort.wdl')
    - This file must be in the wdl url given by ``wdl_directory_url``.
    - The actual wdl link would be ``wdl_directory_url`` + '\' + ``wdl_file_name``

:wdl_child_filenames:
    - <list_of_wdl_files> or ``[]`` (e.g. ['subworkflow1.wdl', 'subworkflow2.wdl'])
    - An array of all the other wdl files that are called by the main wdl file. This could happen if there are the main WDL file is using another WDL file as a subworkflow.


Input data specification
########################

:input_files:
    - A dictionary that contains input files. The keys must match the input argument names of the CWL/WDL.
    - It contains ``bucket_name``, ``object_key`` as required fields.
    - Optionally, it may contain the following fields:

      - ``profile`` if the bucket can only be accessed through profile (profile can be set during Tibanna deployment)
      - ``rename`` if the file name must be changed upon download to the EC2 instance. This could be useful if your files are organized in certain names on S3 but the pipeline requires it to have a different name.

    - ``object_key`` and ``rename`` can be a singlet, an array, an array of arrays or an array of arrays of arrays.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
            'bam': {
                'bucket_name': 'some_public_bucket',
                'object_key': 'some_directory/some_file_name.bam',
                'profile': 'user1'
            },
            'chromsize': {
                'bucket_name': 'suwangs_bucket',
                'object_key': 'some_other_directory/5sd4flvlg.chrom.sizes',
                'rename': 'some_renamed_directory/hg38.chrom.sizes'
            }
        }

    )

:secondary_files:
    - A dictionary of the same format as `input_file` but contains secondary files. The keys must match the input argument name of the CWL/WDL where the secondary file belongs.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
            'bam': {
                'bucket_name': 'some_public_bucket',
                'object_key': 'some_directory/some_file_name.bai',
                'profile': 'user1'
            }
        }

    )


:input_parameters:
    - A dictionary that contains input parameter values. Default parameters don't need to be included. The keys must match the input argument name of the CWL/WDL.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
            'nThreads': 16
        }

    )


Output target specification
###########################


:output_S3_bucket:
    - The name of the bucket where output files will be sent to.

:output_target:
    - A dictionary that contains a desired object keys to be put inside output bucket. This can be useful if, for example, the pipeline always generates an output file of the same name (e.g. report, output.txt, etc) but the user wants to distinguish them by sample names in the output bucket. If not set, the original output file names will be used as object key.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
          'out_pairsam': '7b932aca-62f6-4d42-841b-0d7496567103/4DNFIPJMZ922.sam.pairs.gz'
        }

    )

:secondary_output_target:
    - Similar to ``output_target`` but for secondary files.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
          'out_pairsam': '7b932aca-62f6-4d42-841b-0d7496567103/4DNFIPJMZ922.sam.pairs.gz.px2'
        }

    )

:alt_cond_output_argnames:
    - In case output argnames are conditional (see an example in simple_example_cond_merge_), specify a global output name that can point to one of the conditional outputs.
    - This applies only to WDL since CWL does not support conditional statements.
    - (e.g.

    ::

        {
          'cond_merge.cond_merged' : ['cond_merged.paste.pasted', 'cond_merged.cat.concatenated']
        }


.. _simple_example_cond_merge: https://tibanna.readthedocs.io/en/latest/simple_example_merge.html


Dependency specification
########################


:dependency:
    - List of other jobs that should finish before the job starts
    - Currently, only execution arns are accepted. An execution arn of a given run is printed out after running the ``invoke run_workflow`` command. It can also be retrieved from the response of the ``run_workflow`` function (``response['_tibanna']['exec_arn']``).

    ::

        { 
            "exec_arn": ["arn:aws:states:us-east-1:643366669028:execution:tibanna_unicorn_default_7927:md5_test"]
        }


config
------

:ebs_size:
    - <ebs_size_in_gb>
    - It can be specified by the user or left to be 0 (auto-determine) if Benchmark function is available for a given workflow/pipeline.

:log_bucket:
    - <log_bucket_name>
    - This is where the logs of the Tibanna runs are sent to.

:json_bucket:
    - <log_bucket_name>
    - This is where Tibanna sends an instruction to for an AWSEM EC2 instance.

:instance_type:
    - <instance_type>
    - Instance type (e.g. t2.micro) can be specified by the user or left to be '' (auto-determine) if Benchmark function is available for a given workflow.

:EBS_optimized:
    - <ebs_optimized> ``true``, ``false`` or '' (blank)
    - Whether the specific instance type should be EBS_optimized. It can be True only for an instance type that can be EBS optimized. If instance type is unspecified, leave this as blank.

:shutdown_min:
    - either number of minutes or string 'now'
    - 'now' would make the EC2 instance to terminate immediately after a workflow run. This option saves cost if the pipeline is stable. If debugging may be needed, one could set shutdown_min to be for example, 30, in which case the instance will keep running for 30 minutes after completion of the workflow run. During this time, a user could ssh into the instance.

:password:
    - <password_for_ssh> or '' (blank)
    - One can use either password or key_name (below) as ssh mechanism, if the user wants an option to ssh into the instance manually for monitoring/debugging purpose. Tibanna itself does not use ssh.
    - The password can be any string and anyone with the password and the ip address of the EC2 instance can ssh into the machine.

:key_name:
    - <key_pair_name> or '' (blank)
    - One can use either password (above) or key_name as ssh mechanism, if the user wants an option to ssh into the instance manually for monitoring/debugging purpose. Tibanna itself does not use ssh.
    - The key pair should be an existing key pair and anyone with the key pair ``.pem`` file and the ip address of the EC2 instance can ssh into the machine.

:ebs_iops: 500
:ebs_type: io1



Example job description for CWL
-------------------------------

::

    {
      "args": {
        "app_name": "pairsam-parse-sort",
        "app_version": "0.2.0"
        "cwl_directory_url": "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/4dn-dcic/pipelines-cwl/0.2.0/cwl_awsem/",
        "cwl_main_filename": "pairsam-parse-sort.cwl",
        "cwl_child_filenames": [],
        "cwl_version": "v1",
        "singularity": False,
        "input_files": {
          "bam": {
            "bucket_name": "some_public_bucket",
            "object_key": "5ae5edb2-8917-445a-b93f-46936a1478a8/4DNFI3F894Y3.bam",
            "profile": "user1"
          },
          "chromsize": {
            "bucket_name": "suwang",
            "object_key": "4a6d10ee-2edb-4402-a98f-0edb1d58f5e9/4DNFI823LSII.chrom.sizes"
          }
        },
        "secondary_files": {},
        "input_parameters": {
          "nThreads": 16
        },
        "output_S3_bucket": "suwang",
        "output_target": {
          "out_pairsam": "7b932aca-62f6-4d42-841b-0d7496567103/4DNFIPJMZ922.sam.pairs.gz"
        },
        "secondary_output_target": {}
      },
      "config": {
        "ebs_size": 0,
        "json_bucket": "suwang",
        "EBS_optimized": "",
        "ebs_iops": 500,
        "shutdown_min": 30,
        "instance_type": "",
        "ebs_type": "io1",
        "password": "whateverpasswordworks",
        "log_bucket": "suwang",
        "key_name": ""
      }
    }
