docs/how_it_works.rst, before:


============
How it works
============


.. image:: images/tibanna_diagram_20180207.png 


Tibanna is auto-triggered upon data submission to execute a relevant workflow on the data. It utilizes two-layer scheduling; an upstream regulator based on a state machine called AWS Step Function and a downstream workflow engine that runs Docker/CWL-based pipelines. Tibanna’s AWS Step Function launches several AWS Serverless Lambda functions that control workflow-related metadata generation/tracking and deployment of a workflow on a pre-custom-configured autonomous virtual machine (EC2 instance) (AWSEM; Autonomous Workflow Step Executor Machine).

In addition, Tibanna offers multi-layer real-time monitoring to ensure the workflows are executed flawlessly. AWSEM sends real time logs from Docker/CWL to a designated S3 Bucket; individual AWS Lambda functions are checked through AWS CloudWatch; AWS Step function communicates with users at the top level. The system allows users to ssh into the EC2 instance where a workflow is currently being executed, to allow detailed investigation. Tibanna uses AWS IAM roles to ensure secure access. We have also implemented an accompanying resource optimizer for Tibanna (https://github.com/4dn-dcic/pipelines-cwl/tree/master/Benchmark), which calculates total CPU, memory and space required for a specific workflow run to determine EC2 instance type and EBS (Elastic Block Store) volume size. The calculation is based on input size, workflow parameters and the benchmarking results characteristic of individual workflows. The resource optimizer is essential for automated parameterization of data-dependent workflow runs, while maximizing the benefit of the elasticity of the cloud platform. Tibanna currently uses this optimizer to auto-determine instance types and EBS sizes for 4DN workflow runs.

Tibanna has been evolving: originally developed for Desktop workflow submitter that launches an autonomous VM, then upgraded to a Chalice/Lambda/API-Gateway-based system that works with the Seven Bridges Genomics (SBG) platform, and it currently consists of the original modules integrated with AWS Step functions for upstream scheduling and monitoring, without SBG.

Commit message:

how-it-works doc upated

docs/how_it_works.rst, after:


============
How it works
============


.. image:: images/tibanna_diagram_20180207.png 



Tibanna launches and monitors pipeline runs using two-layer scheduling. The upstream regulator is based on a finite state machine called AWS Step Function and the downstream workflow engine is based on ``cwltool`` which runs Docker/CWL-based pipelines on an EC2 instance. Tibanna’s AWS Step Function launches several AWS Serverless Lambda functions that submits and monitors a pipeline execution on a pre-custom-configured autonomous virtual machine (EC2 instance) (AWSEM; Autonomous Workflow Step Executor Machine). The ``cwltool`` is auto-executed on an instance.

For 4DN, Tibanna's upstream step function consists of four steps instead of two, with one extra step before and one extra step after. These outer steps read and write metadata for 4DN portal for input files, output files, workflows and workflow runs. Some workflow runs (e.g. md5, fastqc) are auto-triggered upon data submission (file upload).

Tibanna allows multi-layer, real-time monitoring. The logs of what's happening on an instance including the `cwltool` log is regularly sent to a designated S3 bucket (Tibanna log bucket). Logs generated by the AWS Lambda functions are sent to AWS CloudWatch, a service provided by AWS; AWS Step function sends logs either as an output json or as an exception. Users can ssh into the EC2 instance where a workflow is currently being executed, for more detailed investigation.

Tibanna uses AWS IAM roles to ensure secure access but also allows use of profile information for accessing public data that requires AWS access keys and secret keys by setting environmental variables for AWS Lambda functions. There is no need to store any security information inside docker image or anywhere in the code.

We have also implemented an accompanying resource optimizer for 4DN pipelines (https://github.com/SooLee/Benchmark), which calculates total CPU, memory and space required for a specific workflow run to determine EC2 instance type and EBS (Elastic Block Store) volume size. The calculation is based on input size, workflow parameters and the benchmarking results characteristic of individual workflows. The resource optimizer is essential for automated parameterization of data-dependent workflow runs, while maximizing the benefit of the elasticity of the cloud platform. Tibanna currently uses this optimizer to auto-determine instance types and EBS sizes for 4DN workflow runs.
