docs/installation.rst, before:

============
Installation
============

Tibanna's installation is two-step. 

1. Installation of the python package content of the repo
  * The ``python setup.py install`` command
  * Installation of Tibanna package on a local machine or any other environment where the user intends to use as a base, to launch workflow runs and check statuses and logs.

2. Deployment of Tibanna to the AWS cloud
  * The ``invoke deploy_unicorn`` command
  * Deployment of a set of AWS Lambda functions and an AWS Step Function that coordinates the Lambda functions

    * Note: these Lambda functions work as serverless minions that launches and monitors individual executions. They live on the cloud and they are called (and charged) only when an execution is submitted. (Tibanna does not require a constantly running master server.)

  * Permission configuration for the AWS Lambda, AWS Step Function, S3 buckets and a user group.

With the second step, one may deploy as many copies of Tibanna as one wishes for different projects, with different bucket permissions and users.


Installing Tibanna package
--------------------------

Tibanna works with the following Python and pip versions.

- Python 2.7
- Pip 9, 10 or 18


Install Tibanna on your local machine or server from which you want to send commands to run workflows.

::

    # create a virtual environment with pip 9.0.3 (or 10 or 18)
    virtualenv -p python2.7 ~/venv/tibanna
    source ~/venv/tibanna/bin/activate
    python -m pip install pip==9.0.3  # or curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py | python - 'pip==9.0.3'
  
  
::

    # installing tibanna package
    git clone https://github.com/4dn-dcic/tibanna
    cd tibanna
    pip install -r requirements.txt  # if you're 4dn-dcic, use requirements-4dn.txt instead


Alternatively, use ``setup.py``

::

   # installing tibanna package
    git clone https://github.com/4dn-dcic/tibanna
    cd tibanna
    python setup.py install


Deploying Tibanna to AWS
------------------------


AWS configuration
+++++++++++++++++


To deploy Tibanna the AWS Cloud, you must first have an AWS account and an admin user credentials. For more details, check out https://aws.amazon.com/.

Once you have the user credentials, we can add that information to the local machine using ``aws configure``. Tibanna uses this information to know that you have the permission to deploy to your AWS account.

::

    aws configure


Type in your keys, region and output format ('json') as below.

::

    AWS Access Key ID [None]: <your_aws_key>
    AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <your_aws_secret_key>
    Default region name [None]: us-east-1
    Default output format [None]: json


Deploy Tibanna
++++++++++++++

To set up and deploy Tibanna, you need an AWS account and the following environmental variables set and exported on your local machine.

::

    export AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER=<your_12_digit_aws_account_number>
    export TIBANNA_AWS_REGION=<aws_region>  # (e.g. us-east-1)


You can find your aws account number from the AWS Web Console.

=================  ========================
|console_account|  |console_account_number|
=================  ========================

.. |console_account| image:: images/console_account.png
.. |console_account_number| image:: images/console_account_number.png


If you're using a forked repo or want to use a specific branch set the following variables as well. They will be used by the EC2 (VM) instances to grab the right scripts from the `awsf` directory of the right tibanna repo/branch. If you're using default (4dn-dcic/tibanna, master), no need to set these variables.

::

    # only if you're using a forked repo
    export TIBANNA_REPO_NAME=<git_hub_repo_name>  # (default: 4dn-dcic/tibanna)
    export TIBANNA_REPO_BRANCH=<git_hub_branch_name>  # (default: master)


Then, deploy a copy of Tibanna as below. This will also set up buckets and user group permission for Tibanna as below.

If you want to operate multiple copies of Tibanna (e.g. for different projects), you can try to name each copy of Tibanna using ``--usergroup`` option (by default the name is ``default_<random_number>``).

Here, we're naming it ``hahaha`` - come up with a better name if you want to.


::

    invoke deploy_unicorn --uesrgroup=hahaha
    # This will give permission to only public buckets.
    # To add permission to private buckets, use --buckets option.


Run a test workflow
+++++++++++++++++++

The above command will first create a usergroup that shares the permission to use a single tibanna environment. Then, it will deploy a tibanna instance (step function / lambda). The name of the tibanna step function is added to your ``~/.bashrc`` file. Check that you can see the following line in the ``~/.bashrc`` file.

::

    # check your ~/.bashrc file
    tail -1 ~/.bashrc

You should be able to see the following.

::

    export TIBANNA_DEFAULT_STEP_FUNCTION_NAME=tibanna_unicorn_<usergroup_name>


To set this environmental variable,

::

    source ~/.bashrc


You can run a workflow using Tibanna if you're an admin user or if you are a user that belongs to the user group.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=<input_json_for_a_workflow_run>


As an example you can try to run a test workflow as below. This one uses only public buckets ``my-tibanna-test-bucket`` and ``my-tibanna-test-input-bucket``. The public has permission to these buckets - the objects will expire in 1 day and others may have access to the same bucket and read/overwrite/delete your objects. Please use it only for initial testing of Tibanna.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=test_json/unicorn/my_test_tibanna_bucket.json



Example with private buckets
----------------------------

Let's try setting up Tibanna that uses private buckets. As you deploy your tibanna, add your private bucket names. Let's name this one ``lalala``.


::

    invoke deploy_unicorn --buckets=<bucket1>,<bucket2>,... --usergroup=lalala


Export the environmental variable for Tibanna step function name.

::

    source ~/.bashrc


As an example you can try to run a test workflow as below.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=test_json/unicorn/my_test_tibanna_bucket.json


Now we have two different copies of deployed Tibanna. According to your `~/.bashrc`, the latest deployed copy is your default copy. However, if you want to run a workflow on a different copy of Tibanna, use ``--sfn`` option. For example, now your default copy is ``lalala`` (the latest one), but you want to run our workflow on ``hahaha``. Then, do the following.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=test_json/unicorn/my_test_tibanna_bucket.json --sfn=tibanna_unicorn_hahaha

Commit message:

added new invoke commands to doc

docs/installation.rst, after:

============
Installation
============

Tibanna's installation is two-step. 

1. Installation of the python package content of the repo
  * The ``python setup.py install`` command
  * Installation of Tibanna package on a local machine or any other environment where the user intends to use as a base, to launch workflow runs and check statuses and logs.

2. Deployment of Tibanna to the AWS cloud
  * The ``invoke deploy_unicorn`` command
  * Deployment of a set of AWS Lambda functions and an AWS Step Function that coordinates the Lambda functions

    * Note: these Lambda functions work as serverless minions that launches and monitors individual executions. They live on the cloud and they are called (and charged) only when an execution is submitted. (Tibanna does not require a constantly running master server.)

  * Permission configuration for the AWS Lambda, AWS Step Function, S3 buckets and a user group.

With the second step, one may deploy as many copies of Tibanna as one wishes for different projects, with different bucket permissions and users.


Installing Tibanna package
--------------------------

Tibanna works with the following Python and pip versions.

- Python 2.7
- Pip 9, 10 or 18


Install Tibanna on your local machine or server from which you want to send commands to run workflows.

::

    # create a virtual environment with pip 9.0.3 (or 10 or 18)
    virtualenv -p python2.7 ~/venv/tibanna
    source ~/venv/tibanna/bin/activate
    python -m pip install pip==9.0.3  # or curl https://bootstrap.pypa.io/get-pip.py | python - 'pip==9.0.3'
  
  
::

    # installing tibanna package
    git clone https://github.com/4dn-dcic/tibanna
    cd tibanna
    pip install -r requirements.txt  # if you're 4dn-dcic, use requirements-4dn.txt instead


Alternatively, use ``setup.py``

::

   # installing tibanna package
    git clone https://github.com/4dn-dcic/tibanna
    cd tibanna
    python setup.py install


Deploying Tibanna to AWS
------------------------


AWS configuration
+++++++++++++++++


To deploy Tibanna the AWS Cloud, you must first have an AWS account and an admin user credentials. For more details, check out https://aws.amazon.com/.

Once you have the user credentials, we can add that information to the local machine using ``aws configure``. Tibanna uses this information to know that you have the permission to deploy to your AWS account.

::

    aws configure


Type in your keys, region and output format ('json') as below.

::

    AWS Access Key ID [None]: <your_aws_key>
    AWS Secret Access Key [None]: <your_aws_secret_key>
    Default region name [None]: us-east-1
    Default output format [None]: json


Deploy Tibanna
++++++++++++++

To set up and deploy Tibanna, you need an AWS account and the following environmental variables set and exported on your local machine.

::

    export AWS_ACCOUNT_NUMBER=<your_12_digit_aws_account_number>
    export TIBANNA_AWS_REGION=<aws_region>  # (e.g. us-east-1)


You can find your aws account number from the AWS Web Console.

=================  ========================
|console_account|  |console_account_number|
=================  ========================

.. |console_account| image:: images/console_account.png
.. |console_account_number| image:: images/console_account_number.png


If you're using a forked repo or want to use a specific branch set the following variables as well. They will be used by the EC2 (VM) instances to grab the right scripts from the `awsf` directory of the right tibanna repo/branch. If you're using default (4dn-dcic/tibanna, master), no need to set these variables.

::

    # only if you're using a forked repo
    export TIBANNA_REPO_NAME=<git_hub_repo_name>  # (default: 4dn-dcic/tibanna)
    export TIBANNA_REPO_BRANCH=<git_hub_branch_name>  # (default: master)


Then, deploy a copy of Tibanna as below. This will also set up buckets and user group permission for Tibanna as below.

If you want to operate multiple copies of Tibanna (e.g. for different projects), you can try to name each copy of Tibanna using ``--usergroup`` option (by default the name is ``default_<random_number>``).

Here, we're naming it ``hahaha`` - come up with a better name if you want to.


::

    invoke deploy_unicorn --uesrgroup=hahaha
    # This will give permission to only public buckets.
    # To add permission to private buckets, use --buckets option.


Run a test workflow
-------------------

The above command will first create a usergroup that shares the permission to use a single tibanna environment. Then, it will deploy a tibanna instance (step function / lambda). The name of the tibanna step function is added to your ``~/.bashrc`` file. Check that you can see the following line in the ``~/.bashrc`` file.

::

    # check your ~/.bashrc file
    tail -1 ~/.bashrc

You should be able to see the following.

::

    export TIBANNA_DEFAULT_STEP_FUNCTION_NAME=tibanna_unicorn_<usergroup_name>


To set this environmental variable,

::

    source ~/.bashrc


You can run a workflow using Tibanna if you're an admin user or if you are a user that belongs to the user group.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=<input_json_for_a_workflow_run>


As an example you can try to run a test workflow as below. This one uses only public buckets ``my-tibanna-test-bucket`` and ``my-tibanna-test-input-bucket``. The public has permission to these buckets - the objects will expire in 1 day and others may have access to the same bucket and read/overwrite/delete your objects. Please use it only for initial testing of Tibanna.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=test_json/unicorn/my_test_tibanna_bucket.json



Example with private buckets
----------------------------

Let's try setting up Tibanna that uses private buckets. As you deploy your tibanna, add your private bucket names. Let's name this one ``lalala``.


::

    invoke deploy_unicorn --buckets=<bucket1>,<bucket2>,... --usergroup=lalala


Export the environmental variable for Tibanna step function name.

::

    source ~/.bashrc


As an example you can try to run a test workflow as below.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=test_json/unicorn/my_test_tibanna_bucket.json


Now we have two different copies of deployed Tibanna. According to your `~/.bashrc`, the latest deployed copy is your default copy. However, if you want to run a workflow on a different copy of Tibanna, use ``--sfn`` option. For example, now your default copy is ``lalala`` (the latest one), but you want to run our workflow on ``hahaha``. Then, do the following.

::

    invoke run_workflow --input-json=test_json/unicorn/my_test_tibanna_bucket.json --sfn=tibanna_unicorn_hahaha


User permission
---------------

To deploy Tibanna, one must be an admin for an AWS account.
To run a workflow, the user must be either an admin or in the IAM group ``tibanna_<usergroup>``. To add a user to a user group, you have to be an admin. To do this, use the ``invoke`` command.

::
 
    invoke users

This command will print out the list of users.

::

    invoke add_users --user=<user> --group=<usergroup>


For example, if you have a user named ``myuser1`` and you want to give permission to this user to user Tibanna ``lalala``. This will give this user permission to run and monitor the workflow, access the buckets that Tibanna usergroup ``lalala``  was given access to through ``invoke deploy_unicorn --buckets=<b1>,<b2>,...``

::

    invoke add_uesrs --user=myuser1 --group=lalala
